# jncip-dc-notes

This repository contains both the source and the compiled HTML for
https://jncip-dc.tylerc.me, a set of notes on the
(JNCIP-DC exam)[https://www.juniper.net/us/en/training/certification/certification-tracks/data-center-track?tab=jncip-dc].

## Genesis

I'm studying for the JNCIP-DC, JNCDA, and JNCDS-DC.  I needed to take
notes, and so I spent some time investigating the best way I could take
notes.  I had a few requirements from the start:

- I'm a Linux user, so Microsoft Word was out
- I wanted to write in a markup language of some sort because I didn't
  want to worry so much about formatting and presentation, so Evernote
  was out
- I wanted to have a call out to specific areas of interest, so Markdown
  was out
- I wanted to focus on content and not markup, so LaTeX was out

Given these requirements (and the subsequent ruling out of other
systems), I settled on ReStructured Text (RST).  I had used Sphinx in
the past to generate API documentation, so I set to work determining if
I could use Sphinx to generate a prettier version of my notes.  As it
turns out, I can.  Learning just enough RST wasn't too difficult,
either.

## Contributing

The sections below describe some areas where I'm looking for
contributions.  In general, just open an issue here in GitHub to start
the dialogue.

Ultimately, contributions are welcome either in the form of pull
requests that offer direct updates to the source or GitHub issues that
lead to updates and contributions to this project.  In either case, I
will update the list of
(Contributors)[https://jncip-dc.tylerc.me/contributors.html] unless
explicitly requested otherwise.

### Diagrams

Unfortunately, being a Linux user has (to date) been the source of a
significant struggle: diagrams.  I'm not good at them to begin with, but
beyond this, there isn't a Linux application that _really_ works
anywhere near as well as Visio.  Are there those that can accomplish the
same goals?  Sure.  Are they as easy as Visio?  Nope.  And so this
entire project's biggest shortcoming is a current lack of diagrams.

If you're great at making diagrams, this is an area where I would love
some help.  Contributions and collaboration would be most welcome.  This
is the area where I could use the most help.

### Labs

More labs are always better.  I would love to see this become a
community-driven lab book!  I will be contributing my own for each
topic, but they may not be exhaustive or in-depth.  Some of them might
just scratch the surface, particularly if I happen to know an area well
already.

### Other Content

This project has started as a place for me to take my notes while
studying.  This naturally means that I might gloss over certain topics
because I already have familiarity with them.  For this reason, another
area would I would welcome community contribution is additional content.
This might be expanding on an area that is already covered or
introducing an entirely new section.

### Technical Corrections

I also welcome technical corrections.  My only request is that if a
technical correction is offered, a source be provided.  I've tried to
find (and sometimes document) where I've found certain information, so
I'd like to have authoritative sources.
